I/t (food industry term):  Information technology.
Iarw (food industry term):  International Association of Refrigerated Warehouses.
Ibarra chocolate:  The traditional Mexican chocolate; contains cinnamon, ground almonds and sugar; the modern version of an Aztec chocolate drink that sometimes contained chiles; ideal for making hot chocolate, but should not be substituted for regular chocolate in most other recipes; there are a few dessert recipes which call for Ibarra chocolate; can be purchased in most grocery stores throughout the Southwest.
Ice Bath:  A bath of ice and water used to chill a food or beverage very quickly.
Ice burn (food industry term):  A contact "burn" of raw fish iced too long.
Ice cream salt: A coarse rock or solar salt added to ice for cooling when making ice cream. It is not food grade and should not be used in baking. Also, see Salt glossary listing.
Ice Cream Soda:  A beverage comprised of carbonated water, flavored syrup, (or a commercial flavored carbonated beverage) and a scoop or two of ice cream.
Ice Milk:  Ice milk is made like ice cream, except it contains less milk fat and milk solids. It has less calories, is lighter and less creamy than ice cream.
Ice Pick:  A tool with a single long, needle-like metal shaft stemming from a weighted handle, and used to chip pieces of ice from large blocks.
Ice:  1. To chill by placing a glass or serving dish in a freezer so that a coat of frost forms on its surface. 2. Frozen water. Freezing point for water is at 32?F (0?C).
Iceberg Lettuce:  The many varieties of this green leafy vegetable all differ in size and crispness. The most common types found in the supermarket are butter, iceberg and romaine. Iceberg has tight, compact heads with little flavor (except for the heart), but a very crisp texture.
Icing Syringe:  A cake-decorating tool. The icing syringe is composed of a tube, plunger and various tips. The tips can be quickly exchanged to form a multitude of patterns with the same icing color.
Icing, Frosting:  A covering and/or filling which contains large amounts of sugar used for cakes and pastries.
Icing:  Sweet coating for cakes and pasties -  most often sugar-based and flavored.
Iddba (food industry term):  International Dairy-Deli-Bakery Association.
Identification label (food industry term):  The label showing name, age (or pasteurization) and the identity of cheese.
Ifma (food industry term):  International Foodservice Manufacturers Association.
Imbottito:  Italian stuffed
Impact (food industry term):  Inventory management program and control technique.
Impact (food industry term):  A measurement of customer reaction to advertising and merchandising.
Impulse buy (food industry term):  An unplanned purchase promoted by visual or other sensory stimulation.
In-ad coupon (food industry term):  A manufacturer's cents-off coupon appearing in a retailer's ad.
In-and-out promotion (food industry term):  A retail promotion for a limited selling period that features product types or quantities not regularly stocked (e.g., lawn mowers, Christmas ornaments).
Inbound (food industry term):  The path customers follow as they enter a store and begin shopping. The term can also refer to the flow of products into a warehouse prior to order selection.
Incentive plan or incentive program (food industry term):  Monetary compensation to employees for meeting and/or exceeding sales, and other profit performance goals.
Income statement (food industry term):  See operating statement.
Incremental (food industry term):  An increase in product sales volume attributed to a special promotion or merchandising plan.
Independent store (food industry term):  A retailer with 1-10 stores with similar operational policies and programs.
Index (food industry term):  An alphabetical list of products and prices handled by a wholesaler.
Indian cress:  Nasturtium leaves and flowers, used in salads.
Indian meal:  Yellow cornmeal.
Indian Pudding:  A spicy cornmeal and molasses pudding usually served with whipped cream, hard sauce, or cream.
Indirect account or indirect buying group (food industry term):  A retailer purchasing products directly from a wholesaler, rather than manufacturers. See direct account.
Indirect chain (food industry term):  A group of retail stores that purchases products from a wholesaler instead of operating its own warehouse.
Indirect expense (food industry term):  An expense that does not directly relate to a specific segment of the business operation.
Indirect selling (food industry term):  A sale of goods by a manufacturer to a service merchandiser or other wholesaler, who in turn sells the products to chain store companies or independent stores.
Individually quick frozen (iqf) (food industry term):  A food processing technique that freezes products in the final stage of processing. It is then wrapped and packaged for shipment.
Industry trade association (food industry term):  A nonprofit organization that represents members and provides services, e.g., referrals, direct purchases, lobbying, education services.
Informal display (food industry term):  A haphazard product display, purposely jumbled in bins or on tables to project a buy-me, well-shopped image. See dump display; jumble display; mass display.
Information technology (i/t) (food industry term):  Integrated computer systems that provide information for business decisions.
Infuse:  To submerge teas or other flavoring ingredients in a hot liquid in order to extract the flavor into the liquid.
Infusion Coffee Maker:  This type of coffee maker consists of a glass pot with a mesh covered plunger that is pressed downward to trap the coffee grounds after steeping. Also known as cafetiere or French press.
Infusion:  The flavor that is extracted from any ingredient such as tea leaves, herbs or fruit by steeping them in a liquid such as water, oil or vinegar.
In-line product (food industry term):  Products that are permanently ordered and stocked for a store.
Inner pack (food industry term):  A sub-package within a master package.
In-pack promotion (food industry term):  A coupon packaged with a product.
Insalata:  Italian salad
Inset (food industry term):  A drop-in fixture used to modify standard grocery shelving. Used to break up the monotony of gondola shelving.
Inside sales rep (food industry term):  See telephone sales rep.
Inspection report (food industry term):  A lost/damage claim describing the condition of the product.
Instant redeemable coupon (irc) (food industry term):  A coupon located with or attached to a product for the customer to use immediately or save for future use.
Instant Rice:  Fully cooked and flash-frozen rice that can be rehydrated in boiling water. It is quick but lacks flavor.
Instant Yeast:  A specially processed form of active dry yeast; can be mixed into a dough dry (rather than dissolved) and reduces rising time by up to 50 percent.
Instant-read thermometer: A stainless-steel probe thermometer indicating the temperature of a liquid, mixture, dough, or meat almost instantly. It is an excellent baker's tool for yeast bread baking.
Institutional advertising (food industry term):  Advertising conveying a company's general image or philosophy as opposed to specific product information. Also known as image advertising.
Institutional and industrial buyers (food industry term):  Hospitals, restaurants, schools and other institutions that buy food and supplies from a wholesale grocer for consumption, not for resale
Institutional sizes (food industry term):  Large cans and packages of food products used in food service preparations, e.g., commissaries, restaurants.
Institutional wholesale grocer (food industry term):  A wholesaler selling to related businesses in the food industry; e.g., commissaries, hotels, restaurants, etc.
In-stock (food industry term):  Products regularly carried, currently stocked on the shelves and available for purchase. See out-of-stock.
In-store advertising (food industry term):  Signage used by a retailer to merchandise products within a store.
In-store bakery (food industry term):  A bakery department producing baked goods in the store using one of two baking methods:  scratch using ready-made mixes and frozen dough. making products according to a formula or bake-off -using ready-made mixes and frozen dough.
In-store banking (food industry term):  A franchise department in a retail store that provides full or partial banking services to customers.
In-store coupon (food industry term):  A coupon only offered to customers who shop in the store.
In-store demonstrators (food industry term):  An employee or temporary person conducting tastings, samplings, and product preparations to encourage impulse buys from customers.
In-store processor (isp) (food industry term):  An in-store computer system that operates the various systems., e.g., point-of-sale register system, ATM cards, inventory.
In-store signs/promotions (food industry term):  Signage used by a retailer to merchandise products and displays within the store.
Insulated bakeware: Metal bakeware constructed of two layers which are separated by an insulating cushion of air. Benefits of baking with insulated bakeware include even baking and consistent results with less bottom crust browning.  With insulated baking pans, the oven temperature for cake and brownie mixes should be set 250F higher. For all other baked goods, use the recommended temperatures, but longer bake times may be needed.
Insulated containers (food industry term):  Containers used to hold hot or cold products to ensure that they will be in good condition when they get to the customer's home.
Integrated approach (food industry term):  Creating opportunities for solution selling of products throughout all departments in a store.
Integrated edi (electronic data interchange) (food industry term):  A term applied to the direct entry of information received electronically into the recipient's computer system (e.g., the entry of a transmitted invoice directly into the accounts payable ledger). Integrated EDI eliminates manual checking, saving time and costs. It requires the sender to adhere strictly to standard formats. Some programs that depend on integrated EDI are computer assisted ordering, continuous replenishment and direct store delivery.
Integration (food industry term):  General merchandise and health and beauty aids shelved in aisles with food, not in a separate store area.
Intercom (food industry term):  An in-store communication system used by employees to speak with one another.
Interest expense (food industry term):  The cost of borrowed money including all interest charges on short- or long-term debt and capital lease obligations.
Intermodal (food industry term):  Transporting products by a variety of transportation vehicles.
Intermodal container (food industry term):  See container.
Internal audit (food industry term):  A staff department that is responsible for performing operational audits of the stores. The areas audited include pricing, receiving, bookkeeping and security areas.
Internal borrowing rate (food industry term):  The rate at which money can be borrowed within the company.
International dairy-deli-bakery assoc. (iddba) (food industry term):  P.O. Box 5528 313 Price Place, Suite 202 Madison, WI 53705-0528 (608) 238-7908
Internet (food industry term):  A global computer network. The system allows you to send and receive communications; conduct research; access public or private databases and advertise products and services.
Internet coupons (food industry term):  Electronically redeemed coupons using the Internet.
Interstore transfer (food industry term):  An invoice showing a transfer of merchandise or wages between separate stores.
Intranet (food industry term):  An internal computer network to facilitate corporate communications with access limited to a company.
Introductory allowance (food industry term):  One-time manufacturer's discount for an initial purchase of a new or existing product.
Introductory offer (food industry term):  A manufacturer's incentive on a new or improved product. See handling charge.
Inventory (food industry term):  Stock-on-hand. An analysis of inventory in the store which provides the company with valuable information regarding shrink, inventory level and management performance.
Inventory carrying cost (food industry term):  The total dollar value of all products carried by a retailer.
Inventory control (food industry term):  The management of product-flow through the retail/ wholesale system.
Inventory loss (food industry term):  A condition that occurs when there is less product on hand than should be; resulting in lower sales and shrink.
Inventory management program and control technique (impact) (food industry term):  A purchasing software program that facilitates inventory control, including ordering, shipping and distributing products.
Inventory turnover (food industry term):  The rate at which products must be restocked because of customer sales.
Invert sugar: Sugar syrup exposed to a small amount of acid and heating to break sucrose into glucose and fructose to reduce the size of the crystals. Invert sugar is used for fondant icings for cakes.
Invoice (food industry term):  An itemized statement of products received showing items shipped, price and total amount billed.
Invoice adjustment (food industry term):  Plus or minus on an invoice due to damaged goods, shortage, etc.
Involtini:  Thin slices of meat or fish which are stuffed and rolled. They may then be saut ed, grilled or baked.
Iodized Salt:  Table salt (sodium chloride) containing potassium iodide, a source of the essential nutrient iodine.
Iph (food industry term):  Items per hour.
Iplermagronen:  Swiss specialty of macaroni, potatoes, onions, cheese and cream.
Iqf (food industry term):  Individually quick frozen.
Iraqi Cuisine:  Iraqi food is rich and diverse, incorporating spices typical of Arabic cooking, such as saffron and mint. The preferred meats in Iraq are lamb, beef, goat, mutton and poultry; Muslims do not eat pork or pork products. As in other Middle Eastern countries, Iraqi meat dishes often combine vegetables and rice. Iraqui popular main courses include kebabs, which are skewered chunks of grilled meat; quzi, roasted and stuffed lamb; and kubba, which is minced meat with nuts, raisins and spices. Masgouf is a special dish made from fish that live in the Tigres river. Another popular dish is tripe, a dish made of cow's stomach. Most meals are accompanied by flat rounds of bread (samoons). For dessert, people enjoy some of Iraq's local fruits, rice pudding, Turkish Delight, sesame cookies, or baklava, a pastry made with honey and pistachios layered between filo sheets. The most widely consumed drinks in Iraq are coffee and tea. Arabic coffee is famous for its strong flavor. In Iraq, people brew their coffee thick and bitter, and serve it black. Tea is usually served in small glasses and drunk sweetened, without milk. Fruit juices and soft drinks are also popular.
Irc (food industry term):  Instant redeemable coupon.
Irish coffee:  Coffee flavored with Irish whiskey and topped with thick cream.
Irish Soda Bread:  A traditional Irish quick bread that uses baking soda as its leavener. It's usually made with buttermilk and may include currants or caraway seed.
Irish stew:  A stew including mutton and vegetables.
Iron:  A mineral used by the blood for forming hemoglobin. Red meat, fish, eggs, and legumes are significant iron sources.
Irradiation (food industry term):  A food preservation process that utilizes radiation to control bacteria growth and increase shelf-life.
Isinglass:  Gelatin made from fish viscera.
Island display (food industry term):  A free-standing retail display built in the center of wide aisles to divert traffic. Products may be case-stacked on the floor or placed on portable tables or fixtures.
Isp (food industry term):  In-store processor.
Italian Parsley:  Parsley with flat leaves. Italian parsley has a stronger flavor than curly leaf parsley.
Italian sausage:  A popular pizza topping consisting of pork flavored with garlic and fennel. Available in sweet and hot styles, the latter of which contains hot peppers.
Italian Sausage:  Coarse sausage usually seasoned with garlic and fennel seed or anise seed; generally sold in plump links in two varieties, hot (flavored with hot red peppers) and sweet (no added peppers).
Italian sausage:  This pork sausage is available in two forms, hot (spiced with hot red peppers) and sweet, and is usually seasoned with garlic.
Italian Seasoning:  A blend of dried herbs used in Italian cuisine, containing basil oregano, rosemary, thyme, sage, marjoram, and red pepper.
Item (food industry term):  Products carried in-stock by a retailer or wholesaler.
Item maintenance (food industry term):  An EDI transaction, UCS 888, used by sellers to electronically provide customers with physical product parameters for consumer item, unit of sale, unit, and unit load. Parameters include identification codes, size, weight, cube and descriptions.
Item pricing (food industry term):  Attaching the retail price to each product.
Item re-order point (food industry term):  A designated inventory level at which additional product should be ordered. Re-order points are generally related to shelf capacity and item case pack.
Items per hour (food industry term):  An average amount of items checked/scanned in an hour by a cashier.
