Qr (food industry term):  Quick response.
Quahog:  The American Indian name for the East Coast hard shell clam. It is also used to describe the largest of these hard shell clams. Other names used are chowder clam or large clam.
Quail:  A small game bird of the partridge family that resembles a small, plump chicken. Known also as "bobwhites" and "partridges." The flesh is white and delicately flavored. Most quail today are raised on bird farms.
Qualifying ad (food industry term):  A retailer's newspaper or radio ad placed to meet a manufacturer's performance requirement.
Quality discount (food industry term):  A promotional discount offered to wholesalers and retailers in which progressively lower prices are available for progressively larger orders.
Quantity discount (food industry term):  A manufacturer's or wholesaler's discount based on the quantity of cases purchased in a single order or over a specified time period. See bracket pricing.
Quark:  German cottage cheese. Soured/curdled milk turned into a very loose cottage cheese-like substance.
Quart:  A measure of volume in the U.S. system; 32 fluid ounces equal 1 quart and 4 quarts equal one gallon.
Quatre-epices:  A French spice mixture containing ground cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and pepper. This mixture is used to season stews and pates.
Quelitas:  Spanish lamb's quarters; pigweed; goosefoot; wild spinach; wild greens; bean and spinach dish seasoned with bacon and chile.
Quemar, quemado:  Spanish to burn; burned.
Quenches:  French Light savory dumplings made of meat or fish and used as a garnish or in a delicate sauce.
Quenelle:  A poached dumpling, usually made of meat or fish.
Quenelle:  A dumpling made from fish or meat forcemeat then poached.
Quesadilla:  A flour tortilla filled, folded, then cooked. The filling usually contains shredded cheese, but may also include ground meat, refried beans, etc.
Quesadilla:  Spanish sandwich; flour tortilla turnover which is usually stuffed with cheese, then toasted, fried or baked. Originally a corn masa empanada filled with meat then deep fried. Modern versions found throughout restaurants in the US are made with flour tortillas that are filled with cheese and perhaps beans, meat, salsa. or vegetables, and folded over when cooked. Usually pan-fried or cooked under a broiler.
Queso anejo:  Spanish aged cheese; salty white cheese slightly similar to feta in flavor, but since it is not brined, its flavor is somewhat milder; a good substitute is grated feta cheese.
Queso asadero:  Spanish also known as quesilla de Oaxaca; a rubbery-textured cheese that is pulled and twisted into strands; traditionally used in fillings where it becomes stringy when heated; whole-milk mozzarella, Monterey jack or Muenster may be substituted.
Queso blanco:  Spanish fresh white cheese, often called queso fresco.
Queso cotija:  Sharp, firm and good for grating. Simply sprinkle it on top of beans, chili or other dishes to enhance their flavor.
Queso flameado:  Spanish flamed cheese; queso fundido (melted cheese); cheese roasted over a flame.
Queso Fresco Cheese:  A fresh Mexican cheese similar to farmer cheese or cottage cheese. This white, slightly salty cheese is available in Latin markets and many supermarkets; also called queso blanco.
Queso fresco:  Usually made from a combination of cow's milk and goat's milk, it tastes like a mild feta cheese. It crumbles easily and tastes good in salads or with beans.
Queso fresco:  Spanish cheese which has a texture similar to farmer's cheese; crumbly white cheese made from partially skimmed milk; lightly tangy and very subtle; usually sold in small round cakes; used for fillings and crumbled into soups and over sauces; often called queso blanco; white Cheddar or a mixture of farmer's and feta cheese are fairly good substitutes.
Queso Oaxaca:  Also known as quesillo, this soft, mild cheese is perfect for quesadillas. It is similar in texture to string cheese, and should e pulled apart into thin strings before being put on the tortilla.
Queso panela:  This soft white cheese often is served as part of an appetizer or snack tray. It absorbs other flavors easily. Like queso blanco, it doesn't melt.
Queso:  The Spanish word for cheese.
Queso:  Spanish cheese.
Quiche Lorraine:  French A custard pie containing cheese and ham or bacon.
Quiche:  This dish is a pastry crust filled with a savory egg custard which usually includes cheese, seasonings, vegetables, and other ingredients. It's typically baked in a shallow, straight-sided, fluted baking dish.
Quiche:  French a savory, open top pie made of eggs, milk or cream, and anything else within reach. The most famous of these is the quiche Lorraine of Alsace, made with bacon and Gruyere cheese.
Quick bread: Bread that is quick to make because it doesn't require kneading or rising time.
Quick Bread:  Quick bread is made with baking soda or baking powder, which is why it's called "quick."
Quick response (qr) (food industry term):  A partnership strategy in which manufacturers and retailers work together to respond rapidly to fill a product order on demand and within a short period of time.
Quick rising yeast:  Quick rising yeast causes a dough to rise in half the the time. Be sure to follow manufacturer's instructions for best results. Find in any supermarket.
Quince:  This yellow-skinned fruit looks and tastes like a cross between an apple and a pear. Its texture and flavor make it better cooked than raw. Its high pectin content make it ideal for use in jams, jellies, and preserves.
Quince:  This yellow-skinned fruit looks and tastes like a cross between an apple and a pear. Its texture and flavor make it better cooked than raw. Its high pectin content makes it ideal for use in jams, jellies and preserves. Introduced to Latin America by the Spanish and/or Portuguese; looks like a large pear, but is hard and very sour; usually cooked with sugar, after which it becomes faint pink.
Quinoa flour: A gluten-free flour made from grinding quinoa grain. It is highly nutritious and yields a tender, moist crumb in cookies, pancakes, waffles, and fruitcakes.
Quinoa:  Quinoa is a protein rich grain which is also high in unsaturated fat and lower in carbohydrates than most grains. It may be used in any dish in place of rice or similar grains.
Quinoa:  Pronounced (KEEN-wah). A natural high-protein whole grain grown in South America. Originally used by the Incas, it can be substituted for rice in most recipes. It is a unique grain in that it serves as a complete protein containing essential amino acids.
Quota (food industry term):  A benchmark used to establish the quantity of product expected to be sold during a promotion.
