U.p.c. (food industry term):  universal product code.
Ucc (food industry term):  Uniform Code Council.
Ucc/ean 128 (food industry term):  Uniform Commercial Code, European Article Number. (Also known as UCC-128.) A bar code system and data format used for primary and secondary product identification in Europe.
Ucs (food industry term):  Uniform Communication Standard.
Ucs ii (food industry term):  A software program that facilitates the transfer of promotional announcements and price changes.
Ucs ordering system (food industry term):  (Uniform Communications System) electronically transmits data, orders, promotional information and price changes between manufacturer and distributor.
Udon Noodles:  These Japanese wheat-flour noodles can be purchased either fresh or dried. They are often used in soups.
Udon:  Thick wheat noodles used in Japanese cooking.
Uffva (food industry term):  United Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Association.
Ugli Fruit:  A Jamaican fruit with loose, yellow-green skin. The fruit is thought to be a cross between the tangerine and the grapefruit with a grapefruit-orange flavor.
Ugli:  An irregular-shaped citrus fruit hybrid between a grapefruit and a tangerine native to Jamaica. It is available around the United States from winter to spring. It has an acid-sweet flavor and is an excellent source of vitamin C.
Ultragrain flour: 100% whole wheat flour made by using a special flour milling process developed to produce a lighter-colored, ultra smooth texture whole grain wheat flour with the texture of white flour. Ultragrain flour may be100% whole white wheat flour All-purpose/Ultragrain flours blended
Umido:  Italian stew.
Unaffiliated retailer, unaffiliated store (food industry term):  An independent retailer who has no interest in nor is affiliated with voluntary merchandising groups sponsored by wholesalers.
Unbleached flour: Flour that is bleached naturally as it ages; no maturing agents are used in the milling process. It may be used interchangeably with bleached flours and has no nutritive differences.
Unconcealed loss or damage (food industry term):  Obvious product damage and/or shortages that occurred during shipping to a retailer/wholesaler. See concealed loss or damage.
Uncooked, pressed:  Curds not cooked but pressed to obtain a firm texture (Cheddar, morbier, mont asio, manchego).
Underproofed loaves or rolls: Shaped bread or rolls which have not reached the desired height or volume before they are baked.
Under-ring (food industry term):  A cashier ringing a product at a price that is less than actual price.
Understock drawers (food industry term):  Drawers that have excess stock stored underneath regulation shelving.
Uniform code council (ucc) (food industry term):  The nonprofit administrative and education organization that works with American and Canadian industry to develop and administer product identification, bar codes and electronic data interchange standards.
Uniform communication standard (ucs) (food industry term):  A set of standard transaction sets for the grocery industry that allows computer-to-computer, paperless exchange of documents and information.
Uninterruptible power system (ups) (food industry term):  An emergency power unit used to back up a primary system.
Unit (food industry term):  A standardized package or amount used in shipping, e.g., pallet, slip sheet.
Unit load (food industry term):  One or more transport packages or other items held together by such means as a pallet, slip sheet, strapping, interlocking, glue, or plastic wrap making them suitable for transport, stacking or storage as a unit.
Unit of sale (food industry term):  A container with one or more consumer units, usually with a fixed count and identical product, that is bought and sold by trading partners. Unit of sale for grocery can range from standard pack units to planned promotional sizes.
Unit pricing (food industry term):  Additional information on a product price used by shoppers to compare the retail price of the item plus an additional price per measure, such as price per pound, per pint, etc.
Unit sales (food industry term):  The total sales volume of a product for a specified time period. See movement.
Unit stocking (food industry term):  A shelf-stocking method that requires a stocker to handle each individual item separately.
United dairy industry association (udia) (food industry term):  O'Hare International Center 10255 W. Higgins Road, Suite 900 Rosemont, IL 60018-5616 (708) 803-2000
United fresh fruit & vegetable association (uffva) (food industry term):  727 N. Washington St. Alexandria, VA 22314 (703) 836-3410
United states department of agriculture (usda) (food industry term):  A federal agency that oversees food production and inspection. The USDA establishes grade standards for commodities, conducts agricultural research, and makes results available, administers food programs, such as food stamps, and distributes food and nutrition information.
United states department of commerce (usdc) (food industry term):  A federal agency that oversees trade and competition. The USDC establishes grade standards for seafood commodities, conducts agricultural research, and makes results available.
United states grade stamp (food industry term):  Signifies that a product is clean, safe and wholesome, and has been produced in an acceptable establishment, with the appropriate equipment, under the supervision of federal inspectors. It also indicates the product is of a specific grade, identified by the appropriate United States grade designation, as determined by a federal inspector according to established requirements of United States grade standards.
Unitized shipment (food industry term):  Product palletized or slipsheeted for easier shipping and handling.
Unitized shipping (food industry term):  Shipping an item in case amounts standardized to the warehouse slot of the distributor.
Universal code council (ucc) (food industry term):  The central data bank for identification numbers, education and support for the Uniform Communication Standard (UCS) program.
Universal communication system (food industry term):  A computer system that uses uniform communications standards to enable retailers, wholesalers, and suppliers to communicate.
Universal product code (u.p.c.) (food industry term):  A number and bar code that identifies products, which is scannable.
Unix (food industry term):  A major multi-user multiprocessing operating system, which is the leading operating system for minicomputers. Bell Laboratories developed it in the early 1970s. It is written in a high-level programming language called C.
Unleavened: A word to describe breads, cakes, or other baked goods that do not use a leavening agent, such as baking powder, baking soda, yeast, or cream of tartar.
Unleavened:  Bread made without a raising agent. Baked thin.
Unmold:  To remove molded food from its container.
Unsalable allowance (food industry term):  A discount that is given to cover the anticipated amount of unsalable products, e.g., perishables.
Unsalable center (food industry term):  A specific location in the retail store or department where damaged products are sent.
Unsalables (food industry term):  Products unworthy of sale, e.g., damaged, out of date, spoiled.
Unsalted Butter:  Butter which contains no salt. Unsalted butter is more perishable than butter with salt.
Unsaturated Fat:  A kind of fat that is in liquid form at room temperature.
Unsaturated fats:  Mainly come from plants and are liquid (oil) in form. Largely polyunsaturated fats include corn oil, soybean oil, sunflower oil, and sesame oil. Largely monounsaturated fats, which may lower blood cholesterol levels, include olive oil, canola oil, and peanut oil.
UNSWEETENED (Bitter):  Chocolate liquor that has no sugar added to it. It has a cocoa butter content between 50% and 58%. It is usually used for baking.
Unsweetened Baking Chocolate:  You don't eat unsweetened chocolate. It has no added sugar and is generally composed of 55% cocoa butter and 45% chocolate mass from the bean. It has an intense chocolate flavor that has to be tempered by sugar and other ingredients.
Unsweetened chocolate:  Chocolate with no added sugar; generally composed of 55% cocoa butter and 45% chocolate mass from the bean. Produces an intense chocolate flavor that must be tempered by sugar and other ingredients.
Upcharge (food industry term):  A wholesaler's charge for a product that is based on the product 's cost plus handling and storage costs.
Upright Chicken Roaster:  A vertical, cross-braced metal stand used to roast poultry; prevents poultry from cooking in its own drippings.
Upright doored merchandiser (food industry term):  A portable refrigerated display unit that can be free-standing or placed against a perimeter wall.
Upright freezer (food industry term):  An upright refrigerated display unit with doors used for merchandising frozen foods.
Upright wall merchandiser (food industry term):  A refrigerated, self-service, fixed display case that is placed against a perimeter wall.
Ups & downs (food industry term):  Prices that change both up and down on a weekly basis, directly relating to manufacturers' specials at warehouse level.
Ups (food industry term):  Uninterruptible power system.
Upside down cake:  A cake made by arranging fruit in the baking pan, over which the batter is poured. When cooled it is inverted so that the fruit is on the top.
Upside-Down Cake:  An upside-down cake is generally made by first covering the bottom of the baking pan with butter, sugar, and arranged fruit. A cake batter is then poured over the fruit. The baked cake is inverted onto a serving plate, which makes the fruit bottom the top of the cake.
Upstream trading partners (food industry term):  For the retailer, the upstream trading partners are the wholesalers, and, in other cases, the supplier. For the wholesaler, the upstream trading partner is the supplier.
Usda (food industry term):  United States Department of Agriculture.
Usda grade (food industry term):  United States Department of Agriculture grades that relate to a specified quality of product. Grade denotes quality and USDA denotes product inspected for wholesomeness.
Usdc (food industry term):  United States Department of Commerce.
Utility (food industry term):  United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) grade of beef. Utility grade meat comes from older cattle and is used to produce sausages or canned beef entrees, such as beef stew.
Uvas:  Spanish grapes.
